# REPRINOV-model
Script of the agent-based model (ABM) described by Laclef et al. (under review) in the article entitled "Modelling the long-term consequences of implementing hormone-free reproductive management on the sustainability of a dairy sheep farm" 

This agent-based dairy sheep flock model was implemented with the GAMA software (V1.8.0) http://gama-platform.org.
The "includes" folder provides a set of csv format input files needed to run the simulations. The data contained in this folder are dummies and do not correspond to the data treated in the article by Laclef et al. (2022)

# Purpose
The management of flock reproduction is essential to the proper functioning of a dairy sheep farm. It determines the number of ewes entering production and thus the performance of the flock. Consequently, it defines the workload, the economic and environmental performance of the farm. Any changes in the management of the reproduction of a flock can therefore have consequences not only at the flock level, but also at the level of the whole farm. The REPRIN'OV ABM model represents the dynamic functioning of a dairy sheep farm and has been designed to simulate and compare different flock reproduction management practices scenarios, with or without hormones. The objective is to evaluate the "ex-ante" impact of new alternative methods to hormonal treatments on the zootechnical, economic and environmental performance of the farm, as well as the workload to identify sustainable ways to introduce hormone-free insemination in dairy sheep farming. Specifically, the simulated zootechnical indicators are the annual and dynamic reproduction and milk production performances of the flock, the simulated economic indicators are the gross product of the farm (without taking into account the diverse subsidies) and the simulated environmental indicators are CH4 emissions from enteric fermentation and manure management, the CO2 emissions linked to the feed input distributed to the flock, the CO2 emissions due to the use of electricity in the farm and the water consumption. Finally, the workload indicators are the annual and dynamic working time during the lambing season and during the milking period.
